# Memory and Depression

Depression is related to a range of different memory difficulties. In particular, depression can make remembering things that happened on particular days in life harder. Also, memories which match your mood can be easy to remember, which means that when you feel sad you are likely to remember times in your past where you also felt sad. Finally, people who experience depression are more likely to recall memories that are lacking in detail. Recalling events from your past in general ways that lack detail can make you feel depressed because you might feel like your life has always been a struggle and it is hard to appreciate the positive aspects of your life. For example, when thinking about your past you might just think ‘nothing I do is right’ or ‘nothing ever works out for me’.

Being able to recall memories of experiences in detail is very important. By details I mean the physical environment you were in, the sensations you experienced - what you saw, what you heard, what you felt, even what you smelt or tasted. People use this detail for lots of things in their life, such as remembering past solutions or coping strategies, sharing experiences with others to make your friendships stronger, and to change your mood - such as cheering yourself up. Training your memory will help you get better at remembering specific memories (memories for particular things that happened in the space of one day in your life) so you can use them for these and other reasons.

Let’s try a few exercises. I will share a few words with you and for each of these I want you to share with me a specific event from your past in as much detail as possible.

The memories you provide don’t have to relate directly to the word that you see. It can just be inspired by them. The memories also don’t have to be related to important events, they can be anything from your past, but try as hard as you can to remember specific events from the past and try to give as much detail as possible.
