# Depression and Difficulties with Attention and Concentration

Depression can cause difficulties with attention and concentration. This can make it difficult to do things like read a book, watch a movie, or follow a conversation. It can also make it difficult to get bigger tasks done too, like staying focused on studying, or paying attention at work. Getting distracted and having trouble focusing on a task can be frustrating, and might actually be a barrier to overcoming depression.

We think that this difficulty in attention and concentration is partly why depression makes it harder to recall memories of specific events from your life. It takes a lot of concentration to remember and recall something from a particular day in the past. By practicing with me you’ll get better at remembering specific events from your life and this could help to improve your attention and concentration.

Let’s try a few exercises. Just like last time, I will share a few words with you and for each of these I want you to share with me a specific event from your past in as much detail as possible.

Remember, the memories you provide don’t have to relate directly to the word that you see. It can just be inspired by them. The memories also don’t have to be related to important events, they can be anything from your past, but try as hard as you can to remember specific events from the past and try to give as much detail as possible. Recalling those details can be useful to help train your attention and concentration - e.g., what you saw, what you heard, what you felt, how you felt emotionally, even what you smelt or tasted.
