# Depression and Rumination

Depression can be associated with ruminating about past events. Rumination is when you think about things that happened in the past over and over again, like a broken record. Sometimes this can involve wondering why you felt or feel the way you do, what you could have done differently, and what went wrong. When people ruminate on past negative events this makes them feel sadder and can make you feel depressed more strongly and for longer.

One way of being able to break out of rumination is to get better at thinking in specific terms, that is, lots of detail for particular events that happened. This is because a lot of rumination happens on a level of thinking that is general (e.g., work is such a terrible place to be) and not specific (e.g., last shift at work there was a lot to do, but it wasn’t that bad and I got through it okay). Specific thinking can be useful as it provides variation and nuance to how you think about pasts events that can make it easier to understand things, even challenging things, from different perspectives.This training can help you to overcome rumination by breaking you out of general thinking, and into concrete, specific thinking. Next time you notice yourself ruminating, try and break yourself out by remembering specific events.

As in the previous modules, I will share a few words with you and for each of these I want you to share with me a specific event from your past in as much concrete detail as possible. Focusing on concrete details, like sights, smells, sounds, can be even more helpful for breaking out of rumination.

Remember, the memories you provide don’t have to relate directly to the word that you see. It can just be inspired by them. The memories also don’t have to be related to important events, they can be anything from your past, but try as hard as you can to remember specific events from the past and try to give as much detail as possible.
